1.Explain the process of JWT
A JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) used to share information between a client (like a web browser) and a server securely. It is most commonly used for Authentication and Information Exchange.

Think of a JWT as a digital "ID badge." Once you log in, the server gives you this badge, and you show it every time you want to enter a restricted area of the website.

A JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) used to share information between a client (like a web browser) and a server securely. It is most commonly used for Authentication and Information Exchange.

Think of a JWT as a digital "ID badge." Once you log in, the server gives you this badge, and you show it every time you want to enter a restricted area of the website.

I.The Structure of a JWT
A JWT is a single string composed of three parts separated by dots (.): Header.Payload.Signature.

A. Header
The header typically consists of two parts: the type of the token (JWT) and the signing algorithm being used, such as HMAC SHA256 or RSA.
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}

B. Payload
This contains the claims. Claims are statements about an entity (typically, the user) and additional data like expiration time.
{
  "sub": "1234567890",
  "name": "John Doe",
  "admin": true
}

C. Signature
To create the signature, the encoded header and payload are combined with a secret key known only to the server. This ensures that the message wasn't changed along the way.


II.How the JWT Process Works
The lifecycle of a JWT generally follows these five steps:

Login Request: The user sends their credentials (e.g., username/password) to the server.

Verification & Creation: The server verifies the credentials. If they are correct, the server creates a JWT using a private secret key.

Token Return: The server sends the JWT back to the browser/client.

Stored by Client: The client stores the token (usually in localStorage or a cookie).

Subsequent Requests: For every future request, the client sends the JWT in the Authorization Header using the Bearer schema:
Authorization: Bearer <token>

Server Validation: The server receives the token, checks the signature using its secret key, and—if valid—grants access to the requested data.

III. Why use JWT?
Stateless: The server doesn't need to keep a session database. All the information required to identify the user is inside the token itself.

Mobile Friendly: Since JWTs don't rely on cookies, they work seamlessly across mobile apps and different domains.

Security: Because of the signature, the client cannot modify the data inside the JWT (like changing their user ID or admin status) without breaking the signature.

Important Note: JWTs are usually encoded,not encrypted. This means anyone who gets hold of the token can read the data inside the Header and Payload. Never put sensitive info like passwords or credit card numbers inside a JWT.